In this lecture we are going to talk about the Options API.
This API was introduced for adding additional settings to WordPress.
Not all settings are related to the content of a page.
Some settings may affect other areas of WordPress in the resource section of this lecture.
I provide a link to the official documentation page for this API.
Let's read the summary together.
The options API is a simple and standardized way of storing data in the database.
The API makes it easy to create access, update and delete options.
All the data is stored in the WP Options table under a given custom name.
This page contains the technical documentation needed to use the options API.
To summarize, we can add data to the database to store our plugin settings.
It's common practice to create a table for storing the settings of a site.
While this practice may seem appropriate for a web app, it's overkill for WordPress.
Sites may have dozens of plugins installed.
If each plugin created a table, the database would become cluttered.
WordPress avoids this issue by standardizing an API for creating data.
Let's look at our database.
The description referred to a specific table called WP Options.
Inside this table, we can find various settings from WordPress.
As you can see, the structure of the table is simple.
We have a column for the name of the settings and another column for storing the value.
Each record contains one value.
It is possible to store multiple values within a single record.
Interacting with this table does not require custom SQL queries.
WordPress has a set of functions for adding, modifying and removing data from this table.
In the next lecture, we are going to begin adding custom settings to this table for our plugin.